# Explore and Summerize Dataset of - TMDB Movie 
In this project, I have used Puthon to apply exploratory data analysis techniques and explore relationships in one variable to multiple variables and to explore a selected data set for distributions, outliers, and anomalies.

# In this reasearch, we did an analysis on films and general information on the film. We answered the main 6 questions posed that interest us.The unifying whole is that I conducted the research based on the popularity rating. Let's look at the general answer to the question:

For starters, I looked at the total number, and if we look from this format, we will notice that Drama is most often found as a genre of films. And the smallest number of genres is TV movies. When dividing the genre into years and popularity, we will see a completely different picture. One of the most popular genres is Action, a sharp jump in popularity is observed in 1977 and 2008, but in 2015 the number increased 3 times. We also see a sharp jump in popularity by genre 1994 Crime, 1999 Drama, 2014 Adventure. by total number year to year: Drama By Populatiry year to year: Action
To the second question, we examined the most popular films for each year and not popular. In this list there are series of three parts of The Lord of the Rings and two parts of Harry Potter. For non-popular films, whose rating and popularity is the lowest, they are really worthy of this rating, because not a single familiar film is found here.
In the third questions we considered profit year to year. You can notice that the profit of films increased every year, which shows that the popularity and total profit of films increases every year with a progressive speed. A sharp jump in profit growth can be seen since 1990. Films from the general series also brought great profit, such as: Star Wars (1977,1999,2015), Indiana Jones (1984, 1989), Harry Potter (2001,2005,2007,2011), The Lord of the Rings (2002,2003)
For the fourth question, we looked at the actors who are most popular for the overall film popularity rating. You can see that several actors meet twice or thrice, as Bernard Lee, Brad Pitt, Elijah Wood, Daniel Readcliffe, Chris Evans. The spikes in popularity among: 1977 Alec Guinness, 1994 Bruce Willis,1999 Brad Pitt, 2009 Michelle Rodrinquez. The greatest spikes in popularity are observed precisely in 2014 Anne Hathaway and 2015 Bryce Dallas Howard. Of the non-popular actors, the smallest has the actor: 1976 Ben Piazza, 1983 Deborah Pratt, 1995 Carmine Candi, 2000 Lori Heuring, 2004 Avijit, 2013 Heiner Lauterbach
On the fifth question, you can notice that every year the total amount of runtime the film decreases. Sharp jumps in the film’s runtime decrease are observed in 1964 - 122.428571, 1967 - 118.384615, 1977 - 108.789474, 1981 - 105.133333, and since 1993 it has been showing films stably within 106.
The budget and total revenue grows every year on films. Vibrant jumps and increase in budgets and revenue begins in 1980, then the numbers grow steadily every year, and the revenue of the film increases from the budgets.
From this analysis, we can understand that every year the need for films increases along with their profitability. Every year there are a lot of consumer content on the part of films, and with the advent of the Internet, their consumption has doubled and tripled. You may notice that people like live films, where there is a lively and illuminating plot, if you can look at the list of popular films you can see that those films with an unusual plot and genre take popularity.
